#summary android-on-freerunner Main Wiki Page
#labels Featured

= Welcome =

Welcome to the Wiki of the Android-on-Freerunner project. This project aims at porting Android to the Openmoko Freerunner. The current release is based on the work done by Koolu for Android Cupcake and includes patches by the community.

= Our focus =

The focus of this Wiki is to centralise Android specific information and how to get it running on the Freerunner. Any general information about the Freeruner device or details which are not specific to this distro can be found on the [http://wiki.openmoko.org Openmoko Wiki]

The Wiki includes information on how to [GetIt download and install Android], how to use specific parts (like the [AndroidDebugBridge ADB shell]), what [FeatureStatus features] of the Freerunner are currently functional and how you can contribute to improve the release.

Browse through the following pages to find those details you are looking for.

* [FeatureStatus Status] of key features of the phone
* [GetIt Download and install] Androind on your Freerunner
* [UseIt Set up] use and support your AoF installation
* [BuildIt Build] AoF from source and get your hands on the code
* [FrequentlyAskedQuestions FAQ]
* [Support Here] you need to be when looking for help  


= Get involved =

We're currently building the Wiki pages. If you think there are ways for us to improve the Wiki, feel free to contact one of the authors (see mail link at the bottom of each page).

The project has its own [http://groups.google.com/group/android-on-freerunner Google Group] which is open for discussion. Come on board and share your experience and questions with other users.

Needless to say the project is also looking for people willing to get their hands dirty on the actual code. Check out the code on [http://gitorious.org/android-on-freerunner Gitorious]. Happy hacking!

For those who want to chat with fellow developers, you can join the dedicated IRC chat channel on irc://irc.freenode.net/android-on-freerunner

Rod Whitby has graciously agreed to archive our IRC channel. Today's archive is [http://logs.nslu2-linux.org/livelogs/android-on-freerunner.txt here], yesterday's [http://logs.nslu2-linux.org/livelogs/android-on-freerunner-prev.txt here] and the complete archive [http://logs.nslu2-linux.org/livelogs/android-on-freerunner/ here].

----
_Send your comments to [mailto:android-on-freerunner@googlegroups.com the mailing list]_