#summary Temp work file.

= Introduction =

*Stefan & Aitch are working here.*


== Why use Version Control? ==
== Centralised v Distributed ==
== Introduction to Git ==
== Introduction to Repo ==
== Installing Git & Repo ==

Installing Repo:
 {{{
 $ curl http://android.git.kernel.org/repo >~/bin/repo
 $ chmod a+x ~/bin/repo
 }}}

== Project layout & branches ==
Based on Android main project [http://source.android.com/projects Link to Android Project page]

The projects are grouped in three main categories *with android-on-freerunner specific projects*:
 * Core projects:  These projects make up the foundation of the Android platform.
 * External projects:  The Android Open Source Project makes use of many other open source projects.
 * Packages:  These projects are standard Android applications and services. 

== Making your own repository ==
This should give step by step instructions for cloning the repository.
 
 Create an empty directory to hold your working files.
   {{{
   $ mkdir aof_source
   $ cd aof_source
   }}}
 Initialise repository, linking it to the cupcake branch where current development id focused. 
   {{{
   $ repo init -u git://gitorious.org/android-on-freerunner/freerunner_platform_manifest.git -b cupcake
   }}}

 Synchronise the repository. This step may take awhile.
   {{{
   $ repo sync
   }}}

== Modifying ==
== Team Collaboration ==
==Compiling==
Again, step by step and specific.

 _Use make TARGET_PRODUCT=freerunner and read the section "Building the code" on http://source.android.com/download for more details. You might need to additional install the liblzo-dev package._
== Testing ==
== Debugging ==
== Pushing & Committing changes ==

----
_Comments to: [http://code.google.com/u/hmutch/ Aitch]_